---
layout: post
title:  "Dandenong Ranges Botanic Garden on an Autumn Day"
author: "Aparna Anna"
comments: true
---
The Dandenong Ranges Botanic Garden  (locally known as Rhododendron Garden) is a beautiful 100+ acre garden situated in the Dandenong Ranges. It is very close to the township of Olinda. This garden has over 15,000 varieties of flowering plants and trees, as well as beautiful long trails and lakes. 


There are many dirt paths in this garden and some of those lead to secret pockets of lawn within the garden. These lawns are cosy and private which is perfect if you want to stay away from the crowd. Autumn leaves covering the path add an extra layer of character to the paths. 

There are different varieties of flowering plants in the garden. Some are native, while others are introduced. Rhododendrons are the most common and can be found every where in the garden and along the trails. Other flowering plants include camellias, daffodils, azaleas, proteas etc. 

The trees are of different shapes and sizes. There are flowering cherry trees along the paved path that leads to Serenity point (which is a lookout point), which will be spectacular in Spring. 

Do not miss Serenity Point, to enjoy the view. You can see almost all the peaks on the North East side. 

This is the first time I am experiencing autumn and it has left me spellbound. Autumn paints nature in beautiful colours. It shows how wonderful nature is and makes you admire the Creator. 

Spring is the ideal season to visit the gardens if you want to enjoy the blossoms, and autumn, if you love to see colourful leaves. I visited the garden in autumn on a sunny day with clear blue skies. The views were breathtaking. 
