---
layout: post
title:  "How Can Teachers Overcome Panic?"
author: "Aparna Anna"
comments: true
---
### Do Teachers Panic?

When I think of a teacher, my Indian brain imagines a woman, in her mid to late 50s, with a grim expression, hair tied back, a stick in hand, and books for the class. I have wondered many times if teachers panic or fear anything.

When I became a teacher, I realised that all teachers panic. It is very common for teachers to panic and lose hope when their expectations are not met. Like any other profession, teaching comes with its own set of problems. A teacher has to deal with the pressures of completing the syllabus in time, prepping students for exams and maintaining records. It is easy to lose track and panic if there is no proper structure in place. Here are some strategies that worked well for me during my teaching days. 

### Support groups
It is important for teachers to have a support group within the school. Colleagues can help you brainstorm and find solutions that you would have never otherwise considered. It is also good to have a network of teachers outside the school to collaborate with and exchange ideas. Knowing that you have good friends to support you will make a world of difference. 

### Being Prepared
Being fluent in the topic under consideration, by doing a bit of research and coming up with activities that can engage students is paramount; it will both help motivate students to learn and teachers to teach. Knowing your subjects and having your tools ready will lead you half way to victory. 

### Create a timetable
Prioritising work and creating a timetable will help you complete tasks. The key is to stick to the timetable. This will prevent backlogs, hence saving you from a panic attacks. 

### Time out
Teachers have the habit of taking work home. They feel that to be a good teacher they need to sacrifice their life to the profession. That is far from the truth. It is important to take some time out to engage with family and friends, or to spend some time alone to boost your energy and refresh your mind. 

### Passion
Being passionate about teaching can take you a long way. Passion makes you take that extra step to ensure the well being of your students. Passion makes you consider them as your children and enables you to work in a student-centric manner. Without passion, teaching can become another arduous task. Remembering why you dived into teaching can help you overcome your fear. 

Teaching can be hectic. It can cause fear and panic at times but it is only profession that can directly influence young minds. 
