---
layout: post
title:  "Greek Food"
author: "Aparna Anna"
comments: true
---
Ben and I went to Greece in 2018 for a short holiday. I was keen on exploring different types of cuisines while in Greece.

## Starters
The Greeks always start of their meals with pita (bread) and dip. The dips are usually Tzaiziki or an olive spread. The natives have pita with just olive oil and some salt. It is a geart way to start your meal but if not careful, you can end up losing your apetite. 


## Souvlaki
Souvlaki is a pita wrap made from skewered meat. 
The meat mainly used is pork but it is also made with chicken, beef and lamb. The meat, along with fried potatoes and vegetables are wrapped in a pita bread. 
Originally, Souvlaki was eaten straight from the skewer with pita bread and vegetables on the side. The proper souvlaki is called as kalamaki in some regions of Greece. 


## Saganaki
Saganaki is a common appetiser  made from feta cheese. The cheese is fried in high heat till it melts. The name ‘saganaki’ comes from the pan that is used. 
There are multiple variants of saganaki. Shrimp saganaki, seen in the picture, is made from feta cheese with shrimp in a tomato base. 


## Cretan Salad
Cretan salad is a delicious, healthy salad made from fresh vegetables. The difference between Cretan salad and Greek salad is the cheese used. Soft goat cheese is used to make Cretan salad. If you get the chance to visit Crete, do not forget to try this.


## Gyros
Gyros is made from meat that is slow cooked on a rotisserie. The meat is then thinly sliced and served with pita bread. It can also be served inside the pita bread and is often had with vegetables and tzaiziki.


## Moussaka
Moussaka, at the first appearance may look like lasagne. It is made from ground meat and sauteed eggplant. It is topped with Bechamel/ white sauce. 


## Seafood
Greece is famous for their variety of seafood from salmon to calamari (squid) to prawns to octopus. Their sea side restaurants are famous for seafood. They bake the fish as a whole. You may need to mention if you do want the stomach removed. Its served with potato chips or steamed vegetables. Ben loves salmon and had them every chance he got. 




